Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr
-------------------------------------

System Requirements:

Windows 98, Windows NT 4.0, or Windows 2000
Pentium2, Celeron, Pentium3 or AMD Athlon CPU
64MB System RAM (96MB for 3D hardware acceleration)
Sound Blaster Live! for environmental audio effects
Matrox G200/G400, ATI Rage 128, or TnT/TnT2/GeForce recommended for 3D hardware acceleration
850MB of free disk space
200MB of free virtual memory


In game non-programmable keys
-----------------------------

F1 - Display list of controls
F2 - Save game
F3 - Restore game
F5 - Toggle sound
F6 - Quick save
F9 - Quick load
F11 - Brighten Screen(Gamma Settings)
F12 - Darken Screen(Gamma Settings)
ESC- Pause


Helpful Hints
-------------

Save OFTEN. You never know what dangers lurk around the next corner. The F6 key is the Quick Save key and the F9 key is the Quick load key. 

Use the monitor calibration from the graphics options menu to adjust your brightness/contrast of your display to the optimal settings.

With your monitor calibrated, play in total darkness if possible. If you play with the lights on, you may loose some of the important details of your surroundings.

Use F11 and F12 to adjust gamma if the game is too bright or too dark.

When changing controls, go to the top of the control configuration menu, and select "Restore Defaults" to change to the default settings.

To learn the controls during gameplay, press F1 to display the control mappings.

Keep health items such as a doctor's bag ready by preselecting them with the [ and ] keys.  To restore your health, press ENTER. This will raise the window to verify that you mean to use the item. Press ENTER again to use the item.  You may also enable "Auto Use Health" from the control options menu (default is ON).

Sometimes you just need to run like hell away from monsters. This isn't your typical action game.  There are times where you will be low on ammo - it is better to run and live than fight and die. 

To make Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr more challenging, turn off "Auto Aim" mode from the controls menu.

Hardware acceleration is turned off by default. If your video card supports hardware acceleration, try turning it on. 

Make sure you have the latest drivers for your video card. If your drivers are more than 3 months old, they are most likely out of date.

Back away from enemies while attacking (even when using melee weapons). Most enemies only have close range attacks so if you keep some distance, Doc will have the advantage.

If you don't know where to go next or what to do, check Doc's notebook and other inventory. There are many clues Doc records and there's even a "To do" list in normal mode that may lead you in the right direction.

Use your map in conjunction with your compass to find your way around in tough to navigate areas like the forest.

If you get stuck in town, try talking to everyone again. Doc may learn something from someone that triggers a new conversation with someone else.

Some items generate different responses when Doc uses them at certain points in the game. These responses are sometimes clues for solving puzzles.

Many of the puzzles in hard mode are solved through clues Doc already has in her notes, recordings, or inventory. The more complex puzzles rely on the player to use a combination of these to solve the mysteries of the Blair Witch, so you may find part of the answer in her notebook and part on a recording.


Seeing in the Dark
------------------

GUN-MOUNTED LANTERN:

All of Doc's weapons have a small flashlight mounted to their barrel.

The lantern is switched on and off by pressing the FLASHLIGHT key.  (F in all modes)


NIGHTVISION:

Doc Holiday is field testing a prototype Nightvision system.

Nightvision is toggled on and off by pressing the NIGHTVISION key.  (N in all modes)  When on, the screen shifts to Doc Holiday's "enhanced" point-of-view.

To look around while Nightvision is on, Doc Holiday must have her weapon drawn.

Nightvision aids in navigating and targeting evil creatures in very dark areas.

Using Nightvision in well-lit areas will produce a visual "burnout."

Due to the pre-video technology Doc has developed, static and interference are common when playing in Nightvision mode. Very near objects will tend to "break up."


Known Issues
==========

On some video cards, if you enter or exit a building while using the nightvision goggles, Blair Witch could quit unexpectedly.

When in point and click mode, if you repeatedly click on a character very quickly and you have an Aureal based sound card, Blair Witch could quit unexpectedly.

If your sound or video card drivers are older than 2 months old, they are most likely outdated. Please download the latest drivers for your video and sound cards. If you do not know of a source for these drivers, visit http://www.nocturnegame.com/nocsupport/


Troubleshooting
---------------

Q: I have a video card with only 1MB of memory on it. I meet the system requirements otherwise. Can I play Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr??
A: Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr requires a video card with at least 2MB of memory on it. Sorry, you will need to upgrade your video card.

Q: Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr seems really choppy and slow. I have a fairly low system and I was hoping to play...
A: In the Graphics Options Menu try turning your screen resolution down. The default is 640 X 480, but you will get faster frame rates at lower resolutions. Unfortunately, some video cards can have trouble with lower resolutions. If this happens to you, try varying your resolutions in the game to see which resolution gives you the best performance.

Q. I have a Voodoo4/Voodoo5, and when I run in 32 bit color, the frame rate is very slow. When I set it to 16 bit color, the frame rate is back to normal. What gives?
A. We believe that this is a bug in the new Voodoo4/Voodoo5 drivers. Because we are unsure, we are working with 3Dfx to try to address the problem. If the problem is due to something in their drivers, you should give 32 bit color a try after each driver update from 3Dfx. If the problem is in our renderer, we will attempt to correct this issue in a patch. 

Q: Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr displays an error message after loading/starting a mission.
A: Turn off 3D acceleration from the Graphics Options Menu. Some cards can not properly support 3D hardware acceleration.

Q: My card supports 3D acceleration. I am sure of it. I want a faster frame rate!
A: Turn on 3D acceleration from the Graphics Options Menu. If the program crashes as you load a mission, see the Q & A above.

Q: I  have a 3Dfx based card. Will Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr use this card?
A: Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr supports Voodoo2, Voodoo Banshee, Voodoo3, and Voodoo5.

Q: Does Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr run on Voodoo2, Voodoo Banshee or Voodoo3?
A: We do not recommend using Voodoo1 or Voodoo2 because they are not AGP cards. Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr will run on them, it just won't be as fast as on AGP cards. In reference to Voodoo3, Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr can run in 16bpp  640 X 480 mode. In reference to Voodoo5, Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr can run at higher resolutions in 32 bit color. 

Q: I have a Voodoo3 - Can resolutions greater than 640x480 be used?
A: Voodoo3 cards do not support the large textures used in Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr  If we can find a workaround to this that doesn't make the game look even more blurry (than it does now on a Voodoo3), we'll fix it.

Q: Can Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr run in software rendering?
A: Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr runs very well with software rendering - better than it does with hardware acceleration in 16 bit color under most instances.  Select 32-Bit Mode from the Graphics Options Menu.  If your computer's clock speed is less than 500MHz, you may wish to run Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr in 512x384 or 320x240 mode. Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr automatically detects the optimal screen resolution for your computer. Screen resolution may be changed from the Graphics Options menu.

Q: Doc Holiday is all white, without any textures on her. Sometimes other characters turn all white. What the heck?!?
A: Most likely you have a card based on a Rage chipset, which has problems with DirectX 6 and beyond causing this kind of illusion. 
 
Q: The game runs but all I see are shadows.  What gives?
A: You probably have a TnT or TnT2 based card.  Download the latest reference video drivers from NVidia's web site.

Q: I want to run higher resolutions than 640x480.
A: You need 16MB on your video card.  32-bit color requires plenty of video memory and cards with less than 16MB of video memory can not handle this. Also, some cards that do have 16MB+ of video memory can not handle Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr in higher resolutions.

Q: 1280x1024 mode runs slow.
A: This mode only runs fast enough on Matrox G400, ATI Rage 128, and GeForce video cards.

Q: Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr exits to the desktop when I run it in 512x384 mode.
A: Don't run 512x384 mode.   Some older video cards don't properly support this mode.

Q: The game says that I have less than 200MB of Virtual Memory free.  How do I fix this so that Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr runs best?
A: Select Control Panel, then System, then Performance, then Virtual Memory. It is best to change this setting so that Windows manages virtual memory.

Q: Game gives an error message saying that you're out of memory.
A: You need more virtual memory.  See previous Q&A for how to change your virtual memory settings.

Q: Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr levels do not load as quickly as I would like.
A: Add more RAM to your computer. The more RAM that you have, within reasonable limits, the faster Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr will load and run.

Q: The dialog skips, pops, or drops out. I have a SoundBlaster Live card. Your box says that it supports this card. What's up with that?
A: You have old LiveWare software and drivers. Visit the Creative Labs web site and download LiveWare 3.0 or higher.

Q: I don't have a SoundBlaster Live card, but I have dialog that skips, pops, or drops out. What about me?
A: You should download and install the latest drivers from your board manufacturer. If you have an Aureal based card (like the Diamond Monster Sound card), download the latest drivers from http://www.a3d.com/html/download/drivers/.

Q: I have the latest drivers and I am sure that things are working. How can I get more cool stuff from my sound card?
A: From the Sound Options Menu, turn on Hardware Mixing. If you have any sound problems, turn this back off (default).

Q: The pistols sound really bad sometimes. It sounds like they are getting cut off. What's up?
A: It sounds like you have your sound turned up too high on the mixer in Windows. Load up the mixer for your sound card and make sure the volume is no higher than 75%. Then, when you want louder sounds, turn up the sound on your speakers and not in the mixer.

Q: Should I use DirectX 7a with Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr?
A: Yes. DirectX7a is required.

Q: The screen has a black bar above and below it (letterbox), but nothing is happening and the game won't continue? What do I do?
A: Hit the ESC key on your keyboard and choose to skip the cinematic.

Q: I have set up my controls so that I use the keys on the number pad. I can't seem to get combinations of keys to work (i.e. run and jump at the same time). Why?
A: Because of the way the number pad works, it can't understand two keys on the number pad being pressed at the same time. You should reconfigure your controls so you will never need to press two keys on the number pad simultaneously (i.e. run and jump for a running jump).

Q: Will Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr run on a AMD-K6 Processor?
A: Sure. 

Q: The game is too dark even when I try calibration.  What can I do?!?
A: Use F11 and F12 to adjust the gamma in game.

Q: How do you Uninstall Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr.
A: Go to control panel and select Add/Remove programs.

Q: I have Windows NT. Can I run with hardware accelerated graphics?
A: Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr supports Windows NT in software mode.   You'll need Windows 2000 and the proper drivers from the video card manufacturer to run accelerated under Direct3D. Windows NT doesn't support DirectX 5 or better (which is what Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr needs to run properly with acceleration).

Q. How come Blair Witch just crapped out to the desktop? All I was doing was playing the entire game in nightvision mode!?!?
A. Stop that! We told you about this in the known issues. On some video cards, if you enter or exit a building while using the nightvision goggles, Blair Witch could quit unexpectedly

Q. Blair Witch just popped back to the desktop. All I was doing was clicking on a character over and over and over and over again as quickly as I could. Oh, by the way, I do have an Aureal based sound card.
A. We covered this in the known issue section. When in point and click mode, if you repeatedly click on a character very quickly and you have an Aureal based sound card, Blair Witch could quit unexpectedly. Now stop that!!

Q. I need technical support! What do I do?!?
A. Email to support@godgames.com <mailto:support@godgames.com> or visit http://www.godgames.com



