Blair Witch Volume Two - The Legend of Coffin Rock
--------------------------------------------------

System Requirements:

Windows 98, Windows NT 4.0, or Windows 2000
Pentium2, Celeron, Pentium3 or AMD Athlon CPU
64MB System RAM (96MB for 3D hardware acceleration)
Sound Blaster Live! for environmental audio effects
Matrox G200/G400, ATI Rage 128, or TnT/TnT2/GeForce recommended for 3D 
hardware acceleration
850MB of free disk space
200MB of free virtual memory


In game non-programmable keys
-----------------------------

F1 - Display list of controls
F2 - Save game
F3 - Restore game
F5 - Toggle sound
F6 - Quick save
F9 - Quick load
F11 - Brighten Screen(Gamma Settings)
F12 - Darken Screen(Gamma Settings)
ESC- Pause


Helpful Hints
-------------

Save OFTEN. You never know what dangers lurk around the next corner. 
The F6 key is the Quick Save key and the F9 key is the Quick load key. 

Use the monitor calibration from the graphics options menu to adjust 
your brightness/contrast of your display to the optimal settings.

With your monitor calibrated, play in total darkness if possible. If 
you play with the lights on, you may loose some of the important 
details of your surroundings.

Use F11 and F12 to adjust gamma if the game is too bright or too dark.

When changing controls, go to the top of the control configuration 
menu, and select "Restore Defaults" to change to the default settings.

To learn the controls during gameplay, press F1 to display the control 
mappings.

Keep health items such as food ready by preselecting them with the [ 
and ] keys.  To restore your health, press ENTER. This will raise the 
window to verify that you mean to use the item. Press ENTER again to 
use the item.  You may also enable "Auto Use Health" from the control 
options menu (default is ON).

Sometimes you just need to run like hell away from monsters. This isn't 
your typical action game.  There are times where you will be low on 
ammo - it is better to run and live than fight and die. 

To make Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin Rock more challenging, turn off 
"Auto Aim" mode from the controls menu.

Hardware acceleration is turned off by default. If your video card 
supports hardware acceleration, try turning it on. 

Make sure you have the latest drivers for your video card. If your 
drivers are more than 3 months old, they are most likely out of date.

Back away from enemies while attacking (even when using melee weapons). 
Most enemies only have close range attacks so if you keep some 
distance, Lazarus will have the advantage.


Seeing in the Dark
------------------

LANTERN:

The lantern is switched on and off by pressing the Lantern key.  (F in 
all modes)

Known Issues
==========

If you experience audio dropout while playing Blair Witch 2, make sure 
you have the latest sound drivers, or go to the Sound Options menu and 
set Device: WavOutWrite: YOUR WAVE DEVICE (the name of your sound card 
should be listed here).  This should solve the drop out problem.

When talking to characters in Blair Witch 2, sometimes it is necessary 
to press and hold the mouse button to get a response.

If your sound or video card drivers are older than 2 months old, they 
are most likely outdated. Please download the latest drivers for your 
video and sound cards. If you do not know of a source for these 
drivers, visit http://www.nocturnegame.com/nocsupport/


Troubleshooting
---------------

Q: I have a video card with only 1MB of memory on it. I meet the system 
requirements otherwise. Can I play Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin 
Rock??
A: Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin Rock requires a video card with at 
least 2MB of memory on it. Sorry, you will need to upgrade your video 
card.

Q: Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin Rock seems really choppy and slow. I 
have a fairly low system and I was hoping to play...
A: In the Graphics Options Menu try turning your screen resolution 
down. The default is 640 X 480, but you will get faster frame rates at 
lower resolutions. Unfortunately, some video cards can have trouble 
with lower resolutions. If this happens to you, try varying your 
resolutions in the game to see which resolution gives you the best 
performance.

Q. I have a Voodoo4/Voodoo5, and when I run in 32 bit color, the frame 
rate is very slow. When I set it to 16 bit color, the frame rate is 
back to normal. What gives?
A. We believe that this is a bug in the new Voodoo4/Voodoo5 drivers. 
Because we are unsure, we are working with 3Dfx to try to address the 
problem. If the problem is due to something in their drivers, you 
should give 32 bit color a try after each driver update from 3Dfx. If 
the problem is in our renderer, we will attempt to correct this issue 
in a patch. 

Q: Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin Rock displays an error message after 
loading/starting a mission.
A: Turn off 3D acceleration from the Graphics Options Menu. Some cards 
can not properly support 3D hardware acceleration.

Q: My card supports 3D acceleration. I am sure of it. I want a faster 
frame rate!
A: Turn on 3D acceleration from the Graphics Options Menu. If the 
program crashes as you load a mission, see the Q & A above.

Q: I  have a 3Dfx based card. Will Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin Rock 
use this card?
A: Blair Witch Volume Two - Rustin Parr supports Voodoo2, Voodoo 
Banshee, Voodoo3, and Voodoo5.

Q: Does Blair Witch Volume Two - Rustin Parr run on Voodoo2, Voodoo 
Banshee or Voodoo3?
A: We do not recommend using Voodoo1 or Voodoo2 because they are not 
AGP cards. Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin Rock will run on them, it 
just won't be as fast as on AGP cards. In reference to Voodoo3, Blair 
Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr can run in 16bpp  640 X 480 mode. In 
reference to Voodoo5, Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr can run at 
higher resolutions in 32 bit color. 

Q: I have a Voodoo3 - Can resolutions greater than 640x480 be used?
A: Voodoo3 cards do not support the large textures used in Blair Witch 
Volume One - Coffin Rock.  If we can find a workaround to this that 
doesn't make the game look even more blurry (than it does now on a 
Voodoo3), we'll fix it.

Q: Can Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin Rock run in software rendering?
A: Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin Rock runs very well with software 
rendering - better than it does with hardware acceleration in 16 bit 
color under most instances.  Select 32-Bit Mode from the Graphics 
Options Menu.  If your computer's clock speed is less than 500MHz, you 
may wish to run Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr in 512x384 or 
320x240 mode. Blair Witch Volume One - Rustin Parr automatically 
detects the optimal screen resolution for your computer. Screen 
resolution may be changed from the Graphics Options menu.

Q: Lazarus is all white, without any textures on him. Sometimes other 
characters turn all white. What the heck?!?
A: Most likely you have a card based on a Rage chipset, which has 
problems with DirectX 6 and beyond causing this kind of illusion. 
 
Q: The game runs but all I see are shadows.  What gives?
A: You probably have a TnT or TnT2 based card.  Download the latest 
reference video drivers from NVidia's web site.

Q: I want to run higher resolutions than 640x480.
A: You need 16MB on your video card.  32-bit color requires plenty of 
video memory and cards with less than 16MB of video memory can not 
handle this. Also, some cards that do have 16MB+ of video memory can 
not handle Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin Rock in higher resolutions.

Q: 1280x1024 mode runs slow.
A: This mode only runs fast enough on Matrox G400, ATI Rage 128, and 
GeForce video cards.

Q: Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin Rock exits to the desktop when I run 
it in 512x384 mode.
A: Don't run 512x384 mode.   Some older video cards don't properly 
support this mode.

Q: The game says that I have less than 200MB of Virtual Memory free.  
How do I fix this so that Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin Rock runs 
best?
A: Select Control Panel, then System, then Performance, then Virtual 
Memory. It is best to change this setting so that Windows manages 
virtual memory.

Q: Game gives an error message saying that you're out of memory.
A: You need more virtual memory.  See previous Q&A for how to change 
your virtual memory settings.

Q: Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin Rock levels do not load as quickly 
as I would like.
A: Add more RAM to your computer. The more RAM that you have, within 
reasonable limits, the faster Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin Rock will 
load and run.

Q: The dialog skips, pops, or drops out. I have a SoundBlaster Live 
card. Your box says that it supports this card. What's up with that?
A: You have old LiveWare software and drivers. Visit the Creative Labs 
web site and download LiveWare 3.0 or higher.

Q: I don't have a SoundBlaster Live card, but I have dialog that skips, 
pops, or drops out. What about me?
A: You should download and install the latest drivers from your board 
manufacturer. If you have an Aureal based card (like the Diamond 
Monster Sound card), download the latest drivers from 
http://www.a3d.com/html/download/drivers/.

Q: I have the latest drivers and I am sure that things are working. How 
can I get more cool stuff from my sound card?
A: From the Sound Options Menu, turn on Hardware Mixing. If you have 
any sound problems, turn this back off (default).

Q: The pistols sound really bad sometimes. It sounds like they are 
getting cut off. What's up?
A: It sounds like you have your sound turned up too high on the mixer 
in Windows. Load up the mixer for your sound card and make sure the 
volume is no higher than 75%. Then, when you want louder sounds, turn 
up the sound on your speakers and not in the mixer.

Q: Should I use DirectX 7a with Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin Rock?
A: Yes. DirectX7a is required.

Q: The screen has a black bar above and below it (letterbox), but 
nothing is happening and the game won't continue? What do I do?
A: Hit the ESC key on your keyboard and choose to skip the cinematic.

Q: I have set up my controls so that I use the keys on the number pad. 
I can't seem to get combinations of keys to work (i.e. run and jump at 
the same time). Why?
A: Because of the way the number pad works, it can't understand two 
keys on the number pad being pressed at the same time. You should 
reconfigure your controls so you will never need to press two keys on 
the number pad simultaneously (i.e. run and jump for a running jump).

Q: Will Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin Rock run on a AMD-K6 Processor?
A: Sure. 

Q: The game is too dark even when I try calibration.  What can I do?!?
A: Use F11 and F12 to adjust the gamma in game.

Q: How do you Uninstall Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin Rock.
A: Go to control panel and select Add/Remove programs.

Q: I have Windows NT. Can I run with hardware accelerated graphics?
A: Blair Witch Volume Two - Coffin Rock supports Windows NT in software 
mode.   You'll need Windows 2000 and the proper drivers from the video 
card manufacturer to run accelerated under Direct3D. Windows NT doesn't 
support DirectX 5 or better (which is what Blair Witch Volume Two - 
Coffin Rock needs to run properly with acceleration).

Q: Particles make my video and/or sound to run choppy, what do I do?
A: Try turning down the particle density in the graphics options.

Q: When I play in hardware over 640x480 I see the occasional wrong camera or left-over scene.
A: This is due to a problem in clearing the previous frame buffer, it will not affect gameplay in any way.

Q. I need technical support! What do I do?!?
A. Email to support@godgames.com <mailto:support@godgames.com> or visit 
http://www.godgames.com




