 Welcome to Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis [v 1.0]
 ===================================================

 CONTENTS:
 0. Technical Support
 1. AutoPlay
 2. Monitor Resolution
 3. Game Initialization & Setup
 4. Video Cards
 5. Troubleshooting
 6. Known Driver Issues

 0. TECHNICAL SUPPORT
 --------------------

 If you have a problem with this product that you cannot resolve, please 
 contact our Technical Support department.  

 Universal Interactive Customer Service 866 341-0879 / (310) 649-8006 
 Universal Interactive Technical Support 866 582-7063 / (310) 649-8016 

     Monday-Friday, 8 am to 4:45 PM Pacific Time. 
     Automated support available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.

 Fax:  (310) 258-0755, 24 hours daily

 World Wide Web address: http://support.vugames.com/

 Or write to:
	
 Vivendi Universal Interactive Publishing
 4247 South Minnewawa Ave., Fresno, CA 93725


 If you decide to telephone our Customer Services, please try to be sitting in
 front of your computer and have a pen and paper at the ready. Before
 contacting us, please try to have the following information ready so that we
 may help you more efficiently:

   o The name of the product.
   o The make and model of your computer.
   o The processor and its speed.
   o Any peripherals attached to the computer.
   o The graphics card, driver date and version.
   o The sound card, driver date and version.
   o The version of Windows you are using.
   o Total memory installed.
   o The exact error message (if any).
   o The version of DirectX installed.
   o The type of CD-ROM drive.
   o The total system resources free before running the program.
   o The name of any programs running in the background.

 If you decide to email our Customer Services, to ensure a prompt reply please
 summarise your issues as concisely as you can, giving details, as above, of
 the product, the problem or error and any circumstances that you feel
 relevant and your particular computer system.


 1 AUTOPLAY
 ----------

 If the Windows(R) AutoPlay feature is enabled on your computer, the "Jurassic
 Park: Operation Genesis" setup screen will automatically appear when you
 insert the "Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis" CD into your CD-ROM drive.
 Simply click on Install and follow the on-screen instructions to continue the
 installation.

 If the AutoPlay feature is disabled, you can begin the installation by doing
 the following:
   a) Go to the Start Menu and select Run.
   b) Type D:\SETUP.EXE (where D is your CD-ROM drive letter) and press Enter.

 -or-

   a) Double-click on your CD-ROM drive icon.
   b) Double-click on SETUP.EXE.


 2. MONITOR RESOLUTION:
 ----------------------

 It is important that you make sure your monitor supports the game
 resolution you have chosen to play in.  To check what resolutions your
 monitor supports, do the following:
   1. Open up My Computer
   2. Double-click on Control Panel
   3. Find the Display icon and open it.
   4. Choose the Settings tab.
   5. Locate the resolution pointer in the Desktop Area box and drag it to the
      far right.

 The resolution choice shown is the maximum resolution your monitor is
 capable of displaying.  If you do not want to change to this resolution
 now, select Cancel.  Your Desktop Area should be set to the game
 resolution you are trying to play in or higher.
 NOTE:  Please make sure your monitor type is properly specified to
 insure correct reporting of available video resolutions.


 3. GAME SETUP:
 --------------

 While some of the video options can be configured from within the game,
 "Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis" also provides a separate application for
 configuring the video options. Some of the options can only be set from the
 setup application. This application is also useful for situations where the
 video options have been set to invalid values that prevent the game from
 starting up correctly.

 (There are also options that can only be set from the options screen within
 the game.)

 The "Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis Setup" application can be started from
 the start menu. A shortcut to the application is created when the game is
 installed.

 Click the "?" button in the setup application for descriptions of all the
 different settings. This help file also lists some recommended settings for
 use with common configurations.


 4. VIDEO CARDS:
 ---------------

 Most modern video cards released towards the end of 2001 and during 2002
 will run "Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis" well.

 Recommended chipsets are:
     nVidia GeForce3
     ATI Radeon 8500/9700


 5. TROUBLESHOOTING:
 -------------------

 Before answering questions, please make sure the latest video and sound
  card drivers for you operating system have been installed.

 Q1:     My graphics are running slowly.

 A1:     Try reducing the resolution to 640x480. Try reducing the color
         bit-depth in the in-game options screen to 16bit.  Also try reducing
         the texture-depth to 16bit.  If this doesn't help enough try reducing
         the texture quality.  If this STILL isn't helping enough start
         reducing the terrain/particle/surface.  This should definitely make a
         big difference.


 Q2:     I have changed the graphics settings, but I'm still having problems
         with the game running slow. What now?

 A2:     Make sure that you have no other applications running when you run
         "Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis". If you have virus protection
         software running, it may be performing file checking as "Jurassic
         Park: Operation Genesis" reads files.  This can lead to performance
         loss. Please refer to your virus protection help for more
         information.


 Q3:     I am using a GeForce3 and am getting some textures flickering. What
         should I do?

 A3:     Please install the latest drivers for the video card. Please use
         version 40.72 (11/11/2002) or later.


 Q4:     I am using an ATI Radeon 9700, and the game is crashing on start up.
         What should I do?

 A4:     Please install the latest drivers for the video card. Please use
         version 6.13.10.6218 (11/2/2002) or later.

 Q5:	 I am using a Matrox Parhelia and there are missing polygons in the 
         terrain and sky. What should I do?

 A5:     Please install the latest drivers for the video card. Please use
         version 5.13.01.1172 or later.


 6. Known Driver Issues:
 -----------------------

	Hardware: 	Nvidia NFORCE Motherboards
	Issue:	  	Sound corruption; Intermittant crashes
	Version fail: 	Nforce-105-release or earlier
	Recommended:	Nforce-win2k_2.00
	Comments:	There are some known issues using the Nforce motherboard
			with driver versions 105 or earlier under Win 2K. This isssues include
			sound corruption after an hours gameplay, and the possibilty
			of intermittant crashes which may hard lock a PC. These 
			problems appear to be solved when using version 2.00. At the
			time this was written version 2.00 were the latest drivers available,
			no knowledge of newer drivers, or their performance was available.
	
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Thank you for purchasing Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis!

"Jurassic Park: Operation Genesis" interactive game © 2003 Universal
Interactive, Inc. Jurassic Park is a trademark and copyright of Universal
Studios and Amblin Entertainment, Inc. Licensed by Universal Studios Licensing
LLLP.  All rights reserved.
